This is a list of documents not linked to on the website: They are kept because they may eventually be linked to again or their information may be reused in other documents. If their information is reused and any remaining text is not relevant, they should be removed from the archive.

Name						Reason						Remark

change_log.rst 					Information may be moved to GitHub page
manual/limitations.rst


manual/notations_and_conventions.rst		To be processed during present work
manual/installation.rst				To be processed during present work
manual/unit_testing.rst				To be processed during present work
manual/sphinx.rst				To be processed during present work
manual/api_reference.rst			To be processed during present work
manual/callback_functions.rst			To be processed during present work
manual/future_plans.rst				To be processed during present work

tutorial/getting_started.rst			To be processed during present work
tutorial/openrsp_context.rst			To be processed during present work
tutorial/perturbations.rst			To be processed during present work
tutorial/overlap_operator.rst			To be processed during present work
tutorial/one_elec_oper.rst			To be processed during present work
tutorial/two_elec_oper.rst			To be processed during present work
tutorial/xc_fun.rst				To be processed during present work
tutorial/zero_elec_oper.rst			To be processed during present work
tutorial/response_solver.rst			To be processed during present work
tutorial/response_functions.rst			To be processed during present work
tutorial/residues.rst				To be processed during present work

developer/background_and_rationale.rst		To be processed during present work		
developer/openrsp_design.rst			To be processed during present work
developer/rules.rst				To be processed during present work
developer/coding_standards.rst			To be processed during present work
developer/files_and_directories.rst		To be processed during present work
developer/pseudocode.rst			To be processed during present work
